How come it is so difficult to find English food in England? In England, in any High
Street in the land, it is easier to find Indian and Chinese restaurants than English ones. In
London, you can eat Portuguese, Turkish, Japanese, Russian, Polish, Swiss, Swedish,
Spanish, and Italian - but where are the English restaurants?
It is not only in restaurants that foreign dishes are replacing traditional British food. In
every supermarket, sales of pasta, pizza and poppadoms are booming. Why has this
happened? What is wrong with the cooks of Britain that they prefer cooking pasta to
potatoes? Why do the British choose to eat lasagne instead of shepherd’s pie? Why do they
now like cooking in wine and olive oil? However, perhaps it is a good thing. After all, this is
the beginning of the 21st century and we can get ingredients from all ever the world in just a
few hours. Anyway, wasn’t English food always disgusting and tasteless? Wasn’t it always
boiled to death and swimming in fat? The answer to these questions is a resounding “No”,
but to understand this, we have to go back to before World War II.
The British have in fact always imported food from abroad. From the time of the Roman
invasion, foreign trade was a major influence on British cooking. English kitchens, like the
English language, absorbed ingredients from all over the world - chickens, rabbits, apples,
and tea. All of these and more were successfully incorporated into British dishes. Another
important influence on British cooking was of course the weather. The good old British rain
gives us rich soil and green grass, and means that we are able to produce some of the finest
varieties of meat, fruit and vegetables, which do not need fancy sauces or complicated
recipes to disguise men taste.
However, World War II changed everything. Wartime women had to forget 600 years of
British cooking, learn to do without foreign imports, and ration their use of home - grown
food.
The Ministry of Food published cheap, boring recipes. The joke of the war was a dish
called Woolton Pie (named after the Minister for Food!). This consisted of a mixture of
boiled vegetables covered in white sauce with mashed potato on the top. Britain never
managed to recover from the wartime attitude to food. We were left with a loss of confidence
in our cooking skills and after years of Ministry recipes, we began to believe that British
food was boring, and we searched the world for sophisticated, new dishes that gave hope of a
better future. The British people became tourists at their own dining tables and in the
restaurants of their land! This is a tragedy! Surely, food is as much a part of the culture as our
landscape, the language, and the literature. Nowadays, cooking British food is like speaking
a dead language.
However, there is still one small ray of hope. British pubs are often the best places to eat
well and cheaply in Britain, and they increasingly try to serve tasty British food. There some
wonderful places to eat in Britain? The Shepherd’s Inn in Melmerby, Cumbria, and the
Dolphin Inn in Kingston, Devon. Their steak and mushroom pie, Lancashire hotpot, and
bread and butter pudding are three of the world!