Environmental protection is one of the main problems of today. Numerous factories and power stations, automobiles
and airplanes characterize industrial civilization. Technological progress improving people&#39;s lives causes numerous
problems that were unimaginable in the past centuries. Through their daily activities, people pollute and contaminate
land, water, and air. Both the atmosphere of the Earth and the depths of the oceans are poisoned with toxic wastes.
Millions of species - animals, birds, and fish have already disappeared from the planet; thousands of others will be
gone tomorrow. Natural resources are exhausted; the ecology is imbalanced.
Big cities face environmental catastrophe as the concentration of millions of inhabitants on a tiny area, the ever-
increasing number of automobiles, growing production, and garbage. The need for energy generates pollution on a
large scale. Energy that derives from fossil fuels contaminates the atmosphere. Nuclear power plants threaten air,
water, and land. The necessity to employ all the residents of the city leads to the creation of new factories that produce
not only consumer goods, but wastes and smog as well. Constant carbon dioxide emissions is a characteristic feature
of big cities. Pollution of water by both industrial and domestic users gives rise to water deficit.
It would be naive to think that the environmental problems are limited to big cities only. Our Earth is a living entity;
land, air, and water are inseparable. Water contaminated in megalopolises runs to the major rivers that then flow into
oceans and seas, thus affecting places far from the point of origin. The atmosphere is in constant movement; the air
polluted in one country can travel the next day to another one poisoning the people. Over the past two decades, the
temperature of the Earth&#39;s atmosphere has gradually increased. Global warming is one of the climatic effects of
polluted air. The reason for the latter becomes carbon dioxide, which prevents heat from escaping. Global warming or
the &quot;greenhouse effect&quot; results in melting of the polar ice caps, raising of the sea level, and flooding of the coastal
areas of the world.
One more source of global danger is acid rains. They appeared as a reaction of the atmosphere to the air
contamination. Acid rains damage water, forest, and soil resources, make fish disappear from many lakes, bring death
to forests. Another danger comes from the depletion of the ozone layer, which absorbs ultraviolet radiation from the
Sun. If it continues, all living organisms on the planet will be damaged.
The next issue coming from massive releases of radioactive materials from nuclear weapons and accidents at
nuclear power plants could seriously endanger humanity. In 1978, a nuclear power plant in the United States suffered
a severe accident leading to radioactive contamination of water and atmosphere. In 1986, the Chernobyl nuclear power
plant suffered a fire and a serious breakdown that led to a radioactive explosion. The contaminated air was soon
carried to northern and eastern European countries.
Beginning with the 1960s, the pollution problems have received great publicity. Recently the environmental
movement has gained widespread support. Environmental activists, organizations of volunteers do their best to stop
pollution of the planet. Due to such groups many laws aimed at environmental protection have been passed. Such laws
as the Clean Air Act, Water Pollution Control Act, and Endangered Species Act led to considerable specific
improvements in the environment. Numerous chemicals, fertilizers and gases that were once used in agriculture and
industry are banned today. Standards for food have become strict, because agricultural chemicals, used for growing
crops, may poison people and end up in food and water supply. In many countries purifying systems for treatment of
industrial waters have been installed, measures have been taken to protect rivers and seas from oil waters. Public
attention to the problem of pollution has now become part of contemporary life. The solution of this global problem
requires the cooperation of all nations. To protect nature people should change their attitude to it. Man should stop
taking from nature everything he needs and give it his love instead. Otherwise the price that mankind will have to pay
will be too high. It is good that at last people started to realise that they should keep air and water clean by establishing
strict pollution control. Efforts are made to reduce pollution from automobile engines by developing pollution-free
engines, which may eventually eliminate the more serious air pollution problems. Certain countries have already
agreed to limit their carbon dioxide emissions. In some years Europe is about to stop using disposable plastic items
like kitchen utensils, bottles and others.Moreover, the strong public reaction can facilitate the exercise of absolute
pollution control in various contamination industries.