The British Parliament is the oldest in the world. It originated in the 12th century as
Witenagemot, the body of wise counselors whom the King needed to consult pursuing his
policy. The British Parliament consists of the House of Lords and the House of Commons
and the Queen as its head. The House of Commons plays the major role in lawmaking. It
consists of Members of Parliament (called MPs for short). Each of them represents an area
in England, Scotland, Wales, and Ireland. MPs are elected either at a general election or at
a by-election following the death or retirement of an MP. Parliamentary elections are held
every 5 years and it is the Prime Minister who decides on the exact day of the election.
Minimum voting age is 18 and the voting is taken by secret ballot. The election campaign
lasts about 3 weeks.The British parliamentary system depends on political parties. The party
that wins the majority of seats forms the Government and its leader usually becomes Prime
Minister. The Prime Minister appoints about 20 MPs from his party to become the Cabinet of
Ministers. Each Minister is responsible for a particular area in the Government. The second
largest party becomes the official opposition with its own leader and ’’shadow cabinet”. The
leader of opposition is a recognized post in the House of Commons.
The Parliament and the monarch have different roles in the government and they only meet
together on symbolic occasions, such as the coronation of a new monarch or the opening of
the Parliament.
In reality, the House of Commons is the one of three that has true power. The House
of Commons is made up of six hundred and fifty elected members, it is presided over by the
speaker, a member acceptable to the whole house. MPs sit on two sides of the hall, one side
for the governing party and the other is for the opposition. The first 2citiizenof seats are
occupied by the leading members of both parties (called “front benches&#39;&#39;). The backbenches
belong to the rank-and-file MPs. Each session of the House of Commons lasts for 160-175
days. Parliament has intervals during its work. MPs are paid for their parliamentary work
and have to attend the sittings. As it was mentioned above, the House of Commons plays the
major role in lawmaking. The procedure is the following: a proposed law (“a bill”) has to
go through three stages in order to become an Act of Parliament. These are called
“readings&#39;&#39;. The first reading is a formality and is simply the publication of the proposal.
The second reading involves debates on the principles of the bill, it is an examination by
parliamentary committees. The third reading is a report stage, when the work of the
committee is reported on to the House. This is usually the most important stage in the
process. When the bill passes through the House of Commons, it is sent to the House of
Lords for discussion. When the Lords agree it, the bill is taken to the Queen for her royal
assent. When the Queen signs the bill, it becomes an Act of the Parliament and the Law of
the Land. The House of Lords has more than 1000 members, although only about 250 take
an active part in the work in the House. Members of this Upper House are not elected,
they sit there because of their rank. The Chairman of the House of Lords is the Lord
Chancellor. He sits on a special seat, called ”Woolsack”. The members of the House of
Lords debate the bill after it has been passed by the House of Commons.
Some changes may be recommended and the agreement between the two Houses is
reached by negotiations.